---
title: "RECAPPED: Red vs. Blue Spring 2022"
layout: post
post-image: "/assets/images/rvb.jpg"
description: How SWIFT pulled off it's first ever in-person Red vs. Blue competition.
authors:
- baseq
tags:
- post
- rvb
- recapped
---
# Overview
> Red vs. Blue (RvB) is an adversial cyberdefense competition run by Cal Poly Pomona's SWIFT. RvB is heavily inspired by the [Collegiete Cyber Defense Competition (CCDC)](https://wrccdc.org/) and is put together by SWIFT in collaboration with Cal Poly Pomona's CCDC team. 

On April 16th, 2022, SWIFT held it's first ever in-person RvB at Cal Poly Pomona (CPP). The theme for this RvB event was "Wasabi Factory," loosely inspired by a CPP and CCDC alum who's alias is "wasabi". 

Here's a summary of the environment. 

| NAME | OS | SERVICES | INTENRAL IP |
| ---- | --- | --- | --- |
| cake | Windows 7 | SSH, HTTP | 192.168.10.99 |
| joe | Windows Server 2016 | AD, DNS, HTTP | 192.168.10.101 |
| needle | Windows Server 2019 | AD, DNS, SSH | 192.168.10.102 |
| backbone | Debian 11 | Router, MySQL, SSH | 192.168.10.53 |
| paste | Ubuntu 16.04 | HTTP, HTTP | 192.168.10.43 |
| blob |  Ubuntu 14.04 | HTTP | 192.168.10.207 |

In this post, I'll cover how we built this environment and peel back the curtain on the inner workings of SWIFT.

# Development Timeline
## Week 1
### Planning
As for every RvB event, the team has to decide on the theme first. This time around was a very unqiue situation: CPP's CCDC team had just come off a rough performance at the WRCCDC Regional Finals, but was inspired by their one solace: wasabi. No, not the green, Japanese paste, but rather the alias of one of [SWIFT's alum](https://twitter.com/spiceywasabi). Once the team decided on this event's theme, we set out to figure out the environment. 

As with all things we do at SWIFT, we want participants to walk away with something learned *during* the competition. This time, we chose docker as the key lesson. The lead developers, myself (baseq), evan, je55, and cove, decided to put essential services in Docker containers so that it would force participants to learn the containerization technology.

> RvB is designed to support those entering and exploring system administration and incident response. Though some things may seem obvious or easy for more experienced veterans,  most participants are still learning. RvB aims to build and reinforce fundamentals.

Then, the team picked out the specific operating systems followed by specific scored services such as a plethora of web servers, SSH servers, and plenty of Active Directory/domain connections.

### Phase 1

With everything planned out on paper, it was time to start development. Phase 1 of RvB development usually starts out with creating all the virtual machines and setting up the initial enviornments.

The Linux boxes (specifically `backbone`) came first. It was decided early on that `backbone` would have the router as a dockerized unscored service. Technically, this might make sense in some kind of business. Router goes down? Restart the container. We never said this was a normal wasabi factory.

### Phase 2
Phase 2 consists of making the existing environment vulnerable. Generally, we like to start off by adding a lot of low hanging fruit that should be fixed fairly quickly. Many of the vulnerabilties we add during Phase 2 are intended to be scored for SCS points, however, our scoring engine wasn't set up in time for it to be feasible.


## Week 2
### Phase 2 continued
We continued adding vulnerabilities to the environment throughout the week, but these vulnerabilities were more complex and sneaky. 

### Phase 3

## Week 3
### Phase 4
Phase 4 is entirely for final testing and scoring engine checks. We want to make sure that every team's pod environment works 100% before we give it to them.

# Bringing it All Together
Finally, the day had come. 